modern american movies of the past 15 years have introduced to the audiences a fresh generation of actors. kevin spacey, russell crowe, 
brad pitt, john cusack, matt damon, edward norton, frances mcdormand, gwyneth paltrow and julianne moore have given performances as vivid 
as their illustrious predecessors. unlike the iconic stars of hollywood's classic era, who always seemed to be playing themselves — stars 
like cary grant, john wayne, gary cooper, clark gable, elizabeth taylor — the current generation of american actors disappear into their roles, 
playing parts that differ from one movie to the next. most of their movies are financed by hollywood. they are a promise to the variety of 
american filmmaking on important reason for this eclecticism is the impact of smaller, semi-independent studios. studios like sony pictures 
classics and dream works specialize in producing or distributing avant-garde movies. however, no studio head has been more influential or 
more successful in promoting innovative american, as well as foreign-language films, than harvey weinstein of miramax. in many ways, weinstein 
is the crucial link between the movies of the 1960s and those of the past 15 years. when weinstein launched miramax in 1979, he wanted to 
produce the sort of challenging films he had adored in his youth. this is precisely what he has done. miramax has been responsible for bringing 
to the united states foreign films like the crying game, cinema paradiso, ii postino, life is beautiful, and like water for chocolate. all of 
these films made money, despite the stereotype abroad that americans will only pay to see blockbuster movies made in hollywood. still, no 
matter how important the contributions and convictions of particular producers, directors or actors have been, what contemporary american 
movies have most in common with the films of the 1960s and 1970s, is a seriousness of artistic purpose combined with a desire to enthrall 
the audience. these twin ambitions are, by no means, uniquely american. wherever they have come from, the greatest directors — charlie chaplin, 
orson welles, alfred hitchcock, john ford, howard hawks, federico fellini, francis ford coppola, martin scorsese, steven spielberg — they have 
always recognized the intimate relationship between entertainment and art. to sum it up american films of the new generation are more open 
to their audience feelings, emotions, the inside world, thoughts and actions. people of the new american generation have a great opportunity 
to watch what is going on inside them in the movies shot outside.
